QATrack+ v0.3.0.18 Release Notes
--------------------------------

- Fixed the UnitTestCollection queryset in the API
- Updated requirements to work with Python 3.7 & new versions of pip

QATrack+ v0.3.0.18 Release Notes
--------------------------------

- Fixed a bug where Test Lists from Test List Cycles with Ad-Hoc frequency
  would not show up when charting

QATrack+ v0.3.0.16 Release Notes
--------------------------------

- Allow disabling warning message by setting TestList.warning_message blank
- Add test type to html class for qa-valuerows so they can more
  easily be targeted in JavaScript code.


QATrack+ v0.3.0.15 Release Notes
--------------------------------

- The Active Unit Test Info filter was fixed
- Fixed minimum width of Category display when performing QC tests
- Added new setting `CATEGORY_FIRST_OF_GROUP_ONLY`.  When True,
  if there is a group of sequential tests with the same category, only
  the top most category name will be shown to allow better visual
  separation of groups of categories.  Currently this defaults to False
  to maintain current behaviour but this will default to True for the
  v3.1.0 release.

Upgrading to v0.3.0.15 from v0.3.0
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you haven't upgraded to v0.3.0 yet see instructions for v0.3.0 below.  If
you've already upgraded to v0.3.0 then to upgrade to v0.3.0.15:

#. Open shell and activate your Python 3 virtual environment then:
#.  .. code-block:: bash

        git fetch origin
        git checkout v0.3.0.15
        python manage.py collectstatic
        python manage.py clearcache

#. On Linux `sudo service apache2 restart` on Windows, restart QATrack3 CherryPy Service


QATrack+ v0.3.0.14 Release Notes
--------------------------------

- A patch was made to fix a security flaw in LDAP/Active Directory
  Authentication.  This patch is only required if you use LDAP/Active Directory
  for authenticating your users.

  To patch your system, please follow the following instructions for your version:

    - v0.3.0.x:

        - Windows. Open a Powershell Window then:

            .. code-block:: bash

                cd C:\deploy
                .\venvs\qatrack3\Script\Activate.ps1
                cd qatrackplus
                git fetch origin
                git checkout v0.3.0.14
                python manage.py shell -c "from qatrack.accounts.utils import fix_ldap_passwords; fix_ldap_passwords()"
                python manage.py collectstatic

            then restart the CherryPy service

        - Linux. Open a terminal:

            .. code-block:: bash

                cd ~/web/qatrackplus
                source ~/venvs/qatrack3/bin/activate
                git fetch origin
                git checkout v0.3.0.14
                python manage.py shell -c "from qatrack.accounts.utils import fix_ldap_passwords; fix_ldap_passwords()"
                python manage.py collectstatic
                sudo service apache2 restart

    - v0.2.9.x:

        - Windows. Open a Powershell Window then:

            .. code-block:: bash

                cd C:\deploy
                .\venvs\qatrack\Script\Activate.ps1
                cd qatrackplus
                git fetch origin
                git checkout v0.2.9.2
                python manage.py shell
                >>> from qatrack.accounts.utils import fix_ldap_passwords; fix_ldap_passwords()
                >>> exit()
                python manage.py collectstatic

            then restart the CherryPy service

        - Linux. Open a terminal:

            .. code-block:: bash

                cd ~/web/qatrackplus
                source ~/venvs/qatrack3/bin/activate
                git fetch origin
                git checkout v0.2.9.2
                python manage.py shell
                >>> from qatrack.accounts.utils import fix_ldap_passwords; fix_ldap_passwords()
                >>> exit()
                python manage.py collectstatic
                sudo service apache2 restart


    - v0.2.8.x:

        - Windows. Open a Powershell Window then:

            .. code-block:: bash

                cd C:\deploy
                .\venvs\qatrack\Script\Activate.ps1
                cd qatrackplus
                git fetch origin
                git checkout v0.2.8.1
                python manage.py shell
                >>> from qatrack.accounts.utils import fix_ldap_passwords; fix_ldap_passwords()
                >>> exit()
                python manage.py collectstatic

            then restart the CherryPy service

        - Linux. Open a terminal:

            .. code-block:: bash

                cd ~/web/qatrackplus
                source ~/venvs/qatrack3/bin/activate
                git fetch origin
                git checkout v0.2.8.1
                python manage.py shell
                >>> from qatrack.accounts.utils import fix_ldap_passwords; fix_ldap_passwords()
                >>> exit()
                python manage.py collectstatic
                sudo service apache2 restart


QATrack+ v0.3.0.13 Release Notes
--------------------------------

For full details of v0.3.0 see the v0.3.0 release notes below.  v0.3.013 is
a patch to v0.3.0 that fixes a few minor issues.

- Service Events have been added to the admin so they can now be hard deleted.

- A few bugs with testpacks has been fixed including where Sublist tests were
  not created correctly when creating test packs.

- A number of bugs with the API have been fixed.

- A bug with the initial v0.3.0 migration has been fixed for those who
  have `SITE_ID ~= 1` in their settings file.

- skipped tests are now excluded by default from `UTILS.previous_test_instance`.

- Bug where the Test List Members drop down would not be populated correctly
  due to conflicting jQuery versions has been resolved.


Upgrading to v0.3.0.13 from v0.3.0
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you haven't upgraded to v0.3.0 yet see instructions for v0.3.0 below.  If
you've already upgraded to v0.3.0 then to upgrade to v0.3.0.13:

#. Open shell and activate your Python 3 virtual environment then:
#.  .. code-block:: bash

        git fetch origin
        git checkout v0.3.0.13
        python manage.py collectstatic
        python manage.py clearcache

#. On Linux `sudo service apache2 restart` on Windows, restart QATrack3 CherryPy Service


QATrack+ v0.3.0 Release Notes
-----------------------------

.. _release_notes_030:


It's been two years since the release of QATrack+ v0.2.9 and this release marks
the largest update to QATrack+ since the initial release in 2012. Details of
QATrack+ v0.3.0 are included below.

Acknowledgements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Many thanks to Ryan Bottema & Crystal Angers at The Ottawa Hospital for all
their work on the development and implementation of the new Service Log app
(with guidance and QA from the rest of the Ottawa QATrack+ team!).

Thank you to `Simon Biggs <https://www.simonbiggs.net/#/>`__ for all his work
on the new experimental Docker deployment method as well as ideas and
discussions on many other features.

Thanks to all of you who provided databases for testing the data model
migration from 0.2.9 to 0.3.0. This helped catch a few DBMS specific migration
issues.  There were also a number of people who tested the migration / update
procedure before this releae which is hugely appreciated!

A big thanks also goes out to the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission! QATrack+
was one of the recipients of the `2017 CSNC's Innovation Grant
<https://www.comp-ocpm.ca/english/news/cnsc-innovation-fund-update.htm>`__
which provided financial support for this release.

Last but certainly not least, thank you to those of you who have submitted bug
reports, made feature requests, and contributed to the many discussions on the
mailing list.


Details of the v0.3.0 release
.............................

* A new :ref:`Service Log <service_log_user>` application for tracking machine
  service events, machine down time, return to service, and more!

* A new :ref:`Parts <parts_user>` application for tracking spare parts, where
  they're located, how many are in inventory, and their vendors.

* :ref:`Sublists <qa_sublists>` have been updated and improved and can now
  have their order rearranged within the parent test list as well as optional
  visual emphasis when performing a test list.

* The user interface has been updated to be a bit more modern while hopefully
  remaining familiar to existing QATrack+ users.

* `Pylinac <http://pylinac.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ is now
  installed by default.  Images can be uploaded, analyzed, and displayed inline
  within test lists.

* Experimental support for importing/exporting :ref:`Testpacks
  <testpack_admin>` for exchanging test configurations with other QATrack+
  installations.

* An :ref:`Application Programming Interface (API) <qatrack_api>` has been
  added for allowing external applications and scripts to access and upload
  data to your QATrack+ server.

* When reviewing data by Due Status you can :issues:`now filter by unit <211>`.

* After creating a Unit Test Collection, it is :issues:`no longer possible to
  change the test list (cycle) assigned to it <245>`.  This is in order to
  prevent unintended data loss.

* You can now assign a :issues:`tolerance to boolean tests <214>`.

* The ability to save test lists is now an :ref:`assignable user permission
  <permissions_admin>`.

* Entire units can now be marked as :issues:`inactive <84>` to make it easy to
  hide units when they are decomissioned.

* Hidden tests :issues:`can now be autoreviewed <286>`.

* When choosing a unit to peform QA on, rather than showing all defined
  frequencies, the drop down lists for test frequencies are now limited
  :issues:`to frequencies of test lists assigned to that unit <274>`.

* A new "experimental" method of deploying QATrack+ using Docker is available.
  This method makes it very easy to get a complete QATrack+ installation up and
  running.  Currently marked as experimental as it has not been deployed in
  production anywhere.  Thank you very much to Simon Biggs for putting this
  idea forward and then getting it all implemented in a sensible way!

* When a reference or tolerance for a test is updated, the history of the users
  who made the change, when the changes was made, the previous reference and
  tolerance, and  an optional comment :issues:`are now stored <49>`.

* It's now possible to set (or read) the comment for a test instance from the
  :issues:`tests calculation procedure <280>`.

* Default email notifications are now sent as html emails with a link to the
  :issues:`relevant test list instance <283>`

* Notification emails are :issues:`no longer sent to inactives users <246>`.

* When performing a test list, the number of existing in-progress sessions for
  the same test list :issues:`is now shown in the UI <208>`. The total number
  of test lists in progress is also now shown in the main drop down menus.

* Comments can now be added when reviewing test list instances and comments on
  test list instances now :issues:`<record the username and timestamp <181>` of
  the comment.

* If a composite test or upload test generates a "Server Error", the error can
  now be seen by :issues:`hovering your mouse over the Status column for the
  test <272>`.

* The UX for deleting a test list :issues:`has been improved <308>`.

* Upload tests now have two context variables available `FILE` and `BIN_FILE`,
  the latter being a file instances opened in binary rather than text mode.
  Any existing upload tests that you have which assume a binary file type will
  need to be updated to use `BIN_FILE`. More details are available in the
  v0.3.0 installation docs.

* Mainstream support for Python 2 is ending in 2020 and as such QATrack+ has
  been updated to use Python 3.4-3.6.

* The complete list of bugs/features can be found on `BitBucket
  <https://bitbucket.org/tohccmedphys/qatrackplus/issues?page=4&milestone=0.3.0>`_


Upgrading to v0.3.0
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  

For instructions on upgrading to QATrack+ 0.3.0 please see the installation
docs for your platform.