.. _release_notes_311:

QATrack+ v3.1.1.4 Release Notes
-------------------------------
* Fixed javascript error on service event pages

QATrack+ v3.1.1.3 Release Notes
-------------------------------
* Fixed issue with migration from 0.3.x to 3.1.1


QATrack+ v3.1.1.2 Release Notes
-------------------------------
* Fixed issue with Chromes font rendering in PDF reports

QATrack+ v3.1.1.1 Release Notes
-------------------------------
* Fixed a permission check bug for users creating service event templates


QATrack+ v3.1.1 Release Notes
-----------------------------

This is a follow up release to address a few issues that were found in v3.1.0. The following
issues have been addressed:

QA
^^^^^

* Added basic multiple choice plotting support
* Fixed a Test admin bug with the display of "Test item visible in charts"
* A message warning you about being logged out or your server not being
  reachable will be shown after 3 consecutive unauthenticated or failed
  pings.  In order to disable this check set `PING_INTERVAL_S = 0` in your
  local_settings.py file.
* The maximum frequency of autosaves has been reduced to once per 4s. This an attempt
  to work around occasional deadlocks with SQL Server.
* Pylinac has been updated (TODO: version):
    * An issue with CatPhan modules CNR calculations return NaN due to the modules not having
      background ROIs defined has been fixed
    * A bug with DMLC VMAT tests with valleys in their profiles that fell below 50% of Dmax has
      been fixed.
    * A regression in QC3 image detection introduced in the QATrack fork of Pylinac has been
      remedied.
* A bug with QA Frequency recurrence rule start dates has been fixed
* The Assign Test Lists to Units admin page will no longer allow a blank Assigned to Field
* Sometimes a test which was skipped by default would not get unskipped when a user
  performed the test.  This has been resolved.

* The confirmation dialogue for reviewing QA was not showing the status
  correctly.  This has now been resolved.

* Due dates were being calculated incorrectly sometimes when the UTC date and
  the local date differed.

* Fixed issue with `UTILS.previous_instance` and
  `UTILS.previous_test_list_instance` would not be fetched if they were
  completed within the last minute.  

Service Log
^^^^^^^^^

* Fixed a bug with Return To Service work forms being populated with incorrect data
* The first Service Event Status created will now automatically be set to the default
* The Service Type field was being incorrectly when entering a new service
  event using a Service Log Template without a Service Type set. This has been fixed.

Faults
^^^^^^

* Fault Type codes are now required to be unique.  A migration has been added
  to update the code to a unique value for any duplicate fault codes.
* Fault ID column size has been reduced in the fault list views
* Fault review users are now shown as full names instead of usernames where possible
* The ability to create new fault types on the fly when entering faults is
  now restricted to users with the "Can Add Fault Type" permission
* Fault type matches are now case insensitive and surrounding whitespace will be stripped
* Fix fault table ordering and search issues with Description & Review Status columns


Parts
^^^

Parts tables now allow you to sort/filter by room

API
^^^

* Fixed a file upload API bug where QATrack+ would try to base64 decode a null value
* The UnitTestCollection API end point should no longer return duplicated results.
* The AutoReviewRuleSetFilter API end point has been fixed.
* Fixed the `fault_types` field of the API's FaultSerializer
* The API schema view will no longer throw a 500 error.
* Submitting a null or blank comment when performing QA via the API (e.g. with
  post data like `{..., "comment": ""}`) would previously result in a 400 Bad
  Request error being returned.  This has been adjusted so that a null or blank
  comment is now valid (no comment will be created) and will not block the QA
  Session from being created.

Reports
^^^^^^

* The Active filter for Service Log Scheduling report filters worked for "Both"
  but not "Yes" or "No". This has now been fixed.  In addition, the wrong set
  of filters was being displayed for the Next Due Dates for Scheduled Service
  Events report.  This has also been addressed.

* Reports now respect the active/inactive status of units as well as the 
  active/inactive status of test list assignments.

* Units are now displayed correctly in the test instance report filters.

* A Chrome update caused the PDF report generation to fail due to trying to access
  already opened files. This has been fixed.

* If the "Difference" column is shown when reviewing QA (i.e. `REVIEW_DIFF_COL
  = True`) then the test list instance details report will now also show the
  difference column.

* Fixed an issue with scheduled reports failing for some report types

* Fixed an issue with Excel report emails failing

* Add new 3 month, 6 month, 90 days, and 180 days date filters 


Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* A few documentation typo fixes
* Fixed a permissions check for deleting faults
* Reviewing faults now use the term "Acknowledge" instead of "Approve"
* Admin access will no longer be required to access the page for editing units available times.
* A permissions check for editing unit available times has been fixed. Anyone with the
  'Change Unit Available Time' permission should be able to edit available times now.


QATrack+ v3.1.0.1 Release Notes
-------------------------------

.. _release_notes_3101:

* Attempt to fix an issue with Django Q not being able to find report types on Windows


QATrack+ v3.1.0 Release Notes
-----------------------------

.. _release_notes_31:


Acknowledgements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Thank you to the many people who suggested new features, contributed bug
reports, and helped out testing this release. Thank you also to all of you who
waited patiently and provided words of encouragement in the 2 years since the
last major QATrack+ release!

Details of the v3.1.0 release
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New version numbering
.....................

Given that QATrack+ is now a mature and featureful application, we are
eliminating the `0.` from the version number and moving from v0.3.0 to v3.1.0.

Moving to GitHub
................

QATrack+ is migrating from BitBucket to
[GitHub](https://github.com/qatrackplus/qatrackplus/).  As part of your update
process you will be instructed to update your `origin` url (`git remote set-url
origin https://github.com/qatrackplus/qatrackplus.git`).


Deprecations & Discontinuations
...............................

* Python 3.4 & 3.5, 3.6: Python 3.4 & 3.5 are no longer receiving updates and
  therefore QATrack+ will no longer be supporting those Python versions. It is
  also recommended that Python 3.7-3.10 be used on Windows as it simplifies
  the install process.

* The settings `AD_DEBUG` & `AD_DEBUG_FILE` are no longer used.  Instead,
  information is now logged to an 'auth.log' file.


Major Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* A new :ref:`Reports <reports>` tool has been added for generating and
  scheduling PDF & Excel reports.  As part of this move the following
  features have now been moved to a report rather than a standalone page:

    * Paper Backup Forms

* A new :ref:`Query Tool <reports-query_tool>` has been added for advanced
  query and reporting.  (You must set :ref:`USE_SQL_REPORTS =
  True<qatrack-config>` in your local_settings.py file to use this feature).

* :ref:`Notifications <notifications>` have been expanded & improved.
    * You can now send notifications on test lists being completed.
    * You can now specify to send notifications to individual users as well as groups.
    * You can now specify that a given notifications will only be sent for
      specific units or test lists.
    * New QC Scheduling & Unreviewed QC Notices.
    * Service event creation & update notices.
    * Parts low inventory notices.
    * Machine faults

* A new :ref:`Autosave <auto_save>` feature has been implemented to
  automatically save test list instance data temporarily to prevent data loss
  when a user mistakenly navigates away from the page while entering QC data.

* A new :ref:`Users & Groups Page <auth_users_groups_app>` has been added to simplify
  the management of Group membership and group permissions.

* A new :ref:`Fault log feature <fault_log>` for recording machine faults.

* You can now create :ref:`Service Event Templates and schedule them
  <sl_template_schedules>` in a similar manner to scheduling QC work.


Non backwards compatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Composite Tests will now raise an error if they return anything other than a
  numerical value, None, or an empty string ("").  Previously it was possible
  to return e.g. a string which would have resulted in the test being skipped.
  If you were relying on this behaviour, you need to switch to using a
  :ref:`String Composite/JSON <qa_string_comp_json>` test type instead.

* The `day` key is now required when performing a Test List Cycle via the API

* Upload tests can not have reference/tolerance values set.  Allowing this originally
  was an implementation oversight.

* :ref:`EMAIL_NOTIFICATION_SENDER <email_notification_settings>` must be set to 
  a valid email address, not just a name.


Tests & Test Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* New test types including:

    * :ref:`Date and Date & Time test types <qa_tests>` to allow users to
      select dates/times with a calendar widget.  These test results will be
      available in calculation contexts as Python date, and datetime values
      respectively.

    * :ref:`Wraparound test type <qa_tests>` have been added.  This test type
      allows you to define a test that "wraps around" at a minimum and maximum
      value.  This type of test is useful for example if you have a
      collimator/gantry readout test and want to consider 359.9 deg a 0.1 deg
      difference from a 0 deg reference.

* A new "Display Name" field has been added to tests.  This is an optional
  field where you can add text describing how a test should be displayed when
  performing or reviewing. Having a separate name & display name allows you to
  create tests with descriptive names that are easy to find in the admin area,
  but use a more succinct name when performing a Test List. If left blank, the
  test name will be used.

* A new "Require Comment" option has been added to force users to enter
  a comment before submitting a test.

* It is now possible to perform a test and not have the due date advanced
  by de-selecting the "Include for Scheduling" option.

* Calculation procedures are now syntax checked, and automatically formatted
  using `Black <https://black.readthedocs.io>`_.

* Numerical tests now have an optional :ref:`Formatting <qa_test_formatting>`
  field to control how their results are displayed.  For example a test with a
  formatting of "%.2E" will use scientific notation with 2 decimal places (3
  sig figures).

* Non-calculated test types (e.g. simple numerical, multiple choice, string,
  etc) may now use the `calculation_procedure` to set :ref:`default initial
  values <qa_default_values>`.

* Added :ref:`UTILS.set_skip and UTILS.get_skip <composite_tests>` functions for
  setting/getting skip status of tests.

* Using `UTILS.set_comment` in a calculation will now open the comment box on
  the front end.

* Setting the `Warning message` field to blank on a `TestList` will now prevent
  a warning message/banner from being shown when tests are at action level.

* Calculated tests are now included in Paper Backup Forms (now a Report) by default

* Frequency dropdown lists when choosing a unit to perform QC on will now only
  show *Ad Hoc* if that unit has ad hoc test lists assigned

* There are new :ref:`Tree Views <qa_tree_views>` available (under the Perform QC
  menu) for viewing/selecting QC assigned to units.  

* There is a new  `MAX_TESTS_PER_TESTLIST` setting (default is 250 tests per
  test list)

Review & Approval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Test.auto_review has been replaced by new AutoReviewRuleSet's that allow you
  to apply different AutoReviewRules to different tests. For more information
  see the :ref:`Auto Review page <qa_auto_review>`.

* A new :ref:`Bulk Review <qa_perform_bulk_review>` feature has been added to
  allow setting review & approval status for multiple test list instances at
  the same time.

* New management commands `review_all_unreviewed` and `clear_in_progress` have
  been added. `review_all_unreviewed` updates the status of all unreviewed test
  list instances, while `clear_in_progress` will delete all in progress test
  lists.


Units & Unit Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* A new :ref:`Collapse <unit_type>` option has been added to the Unit Type model
  to allow collapsing less frequency used unit types in user interface.

* Unit modalities are now labeled as `Treatment or Imaging Modality`


UI Changes
^^^^^^^^^^

* QA -> QC:  In most places in the UI the initials QA have been replaced by QC.
  This change was made to reflect that while QATrack+ is a tool for managing
  the QA program of radiation therapy programs, the data collected in QATrack+
  is QC data.

* Improved the ordering and organization of unit, frequency, and test lists
  fields when assigning a test list to a unit. Also improve UnitType dropdown
  for Unit Admin.

* The Unit admin page now has "Save as New" as an option to make it easier to
  create new units using an existing unit as a template.  You can also now
  leave the unit number blank to have it assigned automatically.

* **Staff Status** has been renamed to **Admin Status** to reflect the fact
  that almost all QATrack+ users are "Staff"!

* Test Instance points with comments associated with them are now highlighed in
  charts

* Clicking on a chart link beside a tests history will now set the date range
  for the chart to the larger of a span of 1 year, or span between the first
  and last history items.  This results in a chart of say the last 5 years of
  data for an annual QA item rather than just the single point from the most
  recent year.

* Keyboard entry of dates is now permitted for Work Started & Work Completed dates
  when performing QC

* New dropdown on Unit selection buttons to allow selecting QC to perform based
  on Test categories.

* A calculation status icon has been added (spins when calculations are being
  performed).

* Add test type css class to test rows.  Allows you to target different test
  types in site.css like:

  .. code-block:: css

        .qa-boolean, .qa-numerical {
            background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05);
        }

* The *In Progress* label will now only display the count of in progress test lists
  visible to the users rather than the total count.

* History & Unreviewed listing pages will now show a paperclip icon if the test list instance
  has at least one attachment.

* ID attributes have been added to many elements on the pages for performing/editing test lists
  to make them easier to target with JavaScript.

* For installations with Units assigned to multiple 'Sites', a new 'Site'
  column has been added to many of the views used for selecting TestList
  assignments and TestListInstances.

Admin Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Inline links to edit and delete foreign key choices have been disabled in all
  QATrack+ admin models. Editing or deleting a foreign key object here has
  always been a poor workflow that lead to confusion for users.

* Setting multiple references & tolerances now allows removing tolerances.

* Setting multiple references & tolerances will now include an entry in that
  UnitTestInfo's change log


API Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^

* A number of bug in the API have been fixed including:

  * a bug which was causing extra information to be returned for list views has
    been fixed.  This may require you to adjust scripts if you were relying on:

    - permissions or user_set data present in the Groups list view
    - first_name, last_name, date_joined, permissions in the User List view
    - Fields other than name, number, or site in the Unit list

  * Bugs with filtering for exact matches of search strings have been resolved.

  * First Name & Last Name have been added to the user-list api view

  * When dependencies of a composite test are skipped and the composite test itself
    is not skipped, an error letting the user know to skip the composite test
    explicitly is now shown.

* The UnitTestCollection API results now include "next_day" and "next_test_list"
  parameters to make it simple to determine which test list is to be performed
  next in a test list cycle.

* The TestList API results now includes a field "test_lists" which is 
  a list of all the sublist test lists for that TestList.

* The banner at the top of the browsable API now says "QATrack+ API" rather
  than Django Rest Framework and now the link directs to the main site rather
  than DRFs site.

* It is now possible to perform a test and not have the due date advanced by
  setting `"include_for_scheduling": False,` in your API post data.

* The `day` key is now required when performing a Test List Cycle via the API


Service Log & Parts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* The `USE_SERVICE_LOG` and `USE_PARTS` settings have been removed.  Permissions
  are suitable for hiding the UI elements if you don't want to use service log
  or parts, but having these settings can complicate some views and testing.

* Added option to :ref:`Group Linkers <sl_linkers>` to make a given Group
  Linker required when submitting a ServiceEvent.

* There is a new `New or Used` field on Parts to allow you to track new and
  used inventories of the same part separately.

* A new setting :ref:`setting_sl_allow_blank_service_area` has been added to
  optionally allow users to submit ServiceEvents without a ServiceArea set
  explicitly.

* A new setting :ref:`setting_sl_allow_blank_service_type` has been added to
  optionally allow users to submit ServiceEvents without a ServiceType set
  explicitly.

* Parts Supplier details have been expanded to include phone numbers, website,
  address and contact information

* Part supplier details pages have been added to show what parts are available
  from each supplier as well as company & contact details.

* You may now add attachments & images to Parts.  Images will be shown inline
  in the parts listing table and parts detail pages.

* :ref:`Service Log Status <sl_statuses>` now have an order field to allow you 

* You can now create :ref:`Service Event Templates and schedule them
  <sl_template_schedules>` in a similar manner to scheduling QC work.

* There is now an app for :ref:`logging machine faults <fault_log>`.

Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* The default authentication backend setting is now:

  .. code-block:: python

    AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS = (
        'qatrack.accounts.backends.QATrackAccountBackend',
    )

  the `QATrackAccountBackend` is a simple wrapper around the Django ModelBackend
  to allow usernames to be transformed prior to authentication.  The transform
  is controlled by the :ref:`ACCOUNTS_CLEAN_USERNAME <accounts_clean_username>` settings.

* A new :ref:`ACCOUNTS_SELF_REGISTER <accounts_self_register>` setting has been
  added to control whether users are allowed to register their own accounts.

* A new :ref:`ACCOUNTS_PASSWORD_RESET <accounts_password_reset>` setting has been
  added to control whether users are allowed to reset or change their own passwords.

* Users can now automatically be added to QATrack+ groups based
  on their AD group memberships using . :ref:`Active Directory Groups to QATrack+ Group Map <auth_ad_groups>`'s

* The :ref:`AD_MEMBERSHIP_REQ <settings_ad>` was previously not functional and 
  has now been replaced by :ref:`Qualifying Groups <auth_ad_qualifying_groups>`'s

* When a user logs in through the AD backend, their email address, first name,
  and lastname will be updated to match the values found in Active Directory.

* The `DEFAULT_GROUP_NAMES` setting has been removed.  Instead, QATrack+ groups
  now have a :ref:`default group flag <auth_groups>`.  Anytime a user logs into
  QATrack+, they will automatically be added to any group with this flag set.

Other Minor Features & Bugs Fixed
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Fixed bug with control charts and null valued / skipped tests. #506
* Fixed bug with selecting Test List Cycle days from sidebar menu

* QATrack+ by default will now use the database for caching rather than the
  filesystem.  This should have comparable or better performance and eliminate
  the occassional 500 errors generated on Windows servers due to file
  permissions & access issues.

* Some python packages have been updated
    * pydicom updated to 2.1.2
    * numpy updated to 1.20.0
    * matplotlib updated to 3.3.4
    * scipy updated to 1.5.4


What didn't make it into this release?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Translations** Unfortunately there is still quite a bit of work to be done
  in order to get QATrack+ translated into other languages.  Translations are
  currently low on the developers priority list so without outside
  contributions it is hard to say when this will be completed. However,
  incremental progress is being made in this direction and templates
  and strings are gradually getting marked for translation.
